README.md, before:

# jersey-wiremock
Autogenerated stubbing & verifying of Jersey resources with WireMock

## What is it?
Jersey (particularly as part of Dropwizard) is great for developing HTTP APIs, using declarative annotations to define
behaviour.

WireMock is great at mocking out HTTP APIs when writing integration tests.

With jersey-wiremock, you can create classes which encapsulate the logic of mocking out your resources (e.g. building
paths, adding query parameters, serialising response entities) without having to write all the boilerplate.

## Show me an example

Let's say you have the following resource:

```java
@Path("/cakes")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class CakesResource {
    @GET
    public List<Cake> getAllCakesByFlavour(@QueryParam("flavour") CakeFlavour flavour) {
        // ... retrieve all cakes with given flavour from data store and return result
    }

    @POST
    public long addNewCake(Cake cake) {
        // ... add cake to data store and return assigned id ...
    }
}
```

Using jersey-wiremock, you can define a mocker like this:

```java
@WireMockForResource(CakesResource.class)
public interface CakesMocker {
    @WireMockStub("getAllCakesByFlavour")
    GetListRequestStubber<Cake> stubGetAllCakesByFlavour(CakeFlavour flavour);
    @WireMockVerify("getAllCakesByFlavour")
    GetRequestVerifier verifyGetAllCakesByFlavour(CakeFlavour flavour);

    @WireMockStub("addNewCake")
    PostRequestVerifier<Void> stubAddCake();
}
```

Which you can then use in your tests like this:

```java
public class OtherServiceIntegrationTest {
    // ... set up an OtherService instance somehow - perhaps via DropwizardAppRule ...

    @Rule
    public WireMockRule wireMockRule = new WireMockRule(8080);

    private CakesMocker cakesMocker;

    @Before
    public void setUp() {
        ObjectMapper objectMapper = new ObjectMapper();
        cakesMocker = MockerFactory.wireMockerFor(CakesMocker.class, wireMockRule, objectMapper);
    }

    @Test
    public void otherServiceRequestsCakesByFlavourExactlyOnce() {
        // given
        CakeFlavour flavour = CakeFlavour.CHOCOLATE;
        cakesMocker.stubGetAllCakesByFlavour(flavour).andRespondWith(new Cake(1, flavour, "Test recipe")).stub();

        // when
        // ... invoke something on OtherService instance ...

        // then
        // ... maybe make some assertions ...
        cakesMocker.verifyGetAllCakesbyFlavour(flavour).times(1).verify();
    }

    @Test
    public void otherServiceHandlesErrorWhenCreatingCake() {
        // given
        cakesMocker.stubAddCake()
                .withRequestBody(matchingJsonPath("$..[?(@.status=='" + CakeFlavour.LEMON + "')]"))
                .andRespond().withStatusCode(500).stub();

        // when
        // ... invoke something on OtherService instance that creates a lemon cake ...

        // then
        // ... assert that OtherService gracefully handled a 500 ...
    }
}
```

## Tell me more - what can it do?

### Supported operations

You can both stub and verify @GET, @POST, @PUT and @DELETE requests, using functionality automatically generated from
simple interface definitions.

| Request type | Action | Interface method return type | Interface method annotation |
|--------------|--------|------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `@GET` (singular return type) | Stub | `GetSingleRequestStubber<EntityType>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@GET` (collection return type) | Stub | `GetListRequestStubber<CollectionEntityType>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@GET` (all types) | Verify | `GetRequestVerifier` | `@WireMockVerify` |
| `@POST` | Stub | `PostRequestStubber<RequestEntity, ResponseEntity>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@POST` | Verify | `PostRequestVerifier<RequestEntity>` | `@WireMockVerify` |
| `@PUT` | Stub | `PutRequestStubber<RequestEntity, ResponseEntity>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@PUT` | Verify | `GutRequestVerifier<RequestEntity>` | `@WireMockVerify` |
| `@DELETE` | Stub | `DeleteRequestStubber<ResponseEntity>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@DELETE` | Verify | `DeleteRequestVerifier` | `@WireMockVerify` |

### Argument handling
The jersey-wiremock mocker interface methods must have an argument for each `@PathParam` and `@QueryParam` declared by the
resource method, and they must be declared in the same order. No other parameters (e.g. `@Context`, entity parameters)
should be declared in the mocker method; `@HeaderParam` is not supported.

#### Argument serialisation
If an argument needs more careful serialisation than simply calling toString() on it, apply the `@ParamFormat`
annotation to the _resource_ method parameter to specify a `ParamFormatter` class to perform the formatting.

#### Query parameter matching
By default, query parameters are matched using WireMock's `equalTo()` value matching strategy. To use a different
strategy annotate the _mocker_ method parameter with `@ParamMatchedBy`. Supported strategies are `EQUAL_TO`,
`CONTAINING`, `MATCHING` and `NOT_MATCHING`.

Note that `@ParamMatchedBy` has no effect on path parameters.

### Request body matching
Request stubbers and verifiers for request types that have request entity bodies come with two methods for matching
those request bodies: `withRequestEntity(T entity)` and `withRequestBody(ValueMatchingStrategy strategy)`. The first is
will take an entity and serialise it with the ObjectMapper to provide the string to match against. The second allows
much more fine-grained control over the matching, by allowing specification of any WireMock `ValueMatchingStrategy`,
e.g. `contains()` or `matchesJsonPath()`.

If no request body matching is specified, any request body is acceptable.

### Response body writing
Request stubbers for request types that have singular response bodies can specify a response to reply with - to do so,
use either the `.andRespondWith(myEntity)` or `.andRespond().withEntity(myEntity)` forms. The given object will be
serialised with the ObjectMapper and returned.

For collection type responses, usage is very similar: `.andRespondWith(entity1, entity2, ...)` or
`.andRespond().withEntities(entity1, entity2)`. All entities will be placed in an empty collection of the appropriate
type, then that collection will be serialised.

### Simulating faults
WireMock faults can be applied to responses, e.g. `.andRespond().withFault(Fault.EMPTY_RESPONSE)`.

## But it doesn't do X!
The aim is only to handle the simple cases. For more complicated cases, it's still possible to retain some benefits
from jersey-wiremock by using an abstract class instead of an interface. All the annotated abstract methods work as
described above, but concrete methods may be provided to perform actions that jersey-wiremock doesn't support.

All such abstract classes must inherit from `BaseMocker`.

Commit message:

Support named mocker parameters, and optional query parameters

README.md, after:

# jersey-wiremock
Autogenerated stubbing & verifying of Jersey resources with WireMock

## What is it?
Jersey (particularly as part of Dropwizard) is great for developing HTTP APIs, using declarative annotations to define
behaviour.

WireMock is great at mocking out HTTP APIs when writing integration tests.

With jersey-wiremock, you can create classes which encapsulate the logic of mocking out your resources (e.g. building
paths, adding query parameters, serialising response entities) without having to write all the boilerplate.

## Show me an example

Let's say you have the following resource:

```java
@Path("/cakes")
@Produces(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public class CakesResource {
    @GET
    public List<Cake> getAllCakesByFlavour(@QueryParam("flavour") CakeFlavour flavour) {
        // ... retrieve all cakes with given flavour from data store and return result
    }

    @POST
    public long addNewCake(Cake cake) {
        // ... add cake to data store and return assigned id ...
    }
}
```

Using jersey-wiremock, you can define a mocker like this:

```java
@WireMockForResource(CakesResource.class)
public interface CakesMocker {
    @WireMockStub("getAllCakesByFlavour")
    GetListRequestStubber<Cake> stubGetAllCakesByFlavour(CakeFlavour flavour);
    @WireMockVerify("getAllCakesByFlavour")
    GetRequestVerifier verifyGetAllCakesByFlavour(CakeFlavour flavour);

    @WireMockStub("addNewCake")
    PostRequestVerifier<Void> stubAddCake();
}
```

Which you can then use in your tests like this:

```java
public class OtherServiceIntegrationTest {
    // ... set up an OtherService instance somehow - perhaps via DropwizardAppRule ...

    @Rule
    public WireMockRule wireMockRule = new WireMockRule(8080);

    private CakesMocker cakesMocker;

    @Before
    public void setUp() {
        ObjectMapper objectMapper = new ObjectMapper();
        cakesMocker = MockerFactory.wireMockerFor(CakesMocker.class, wireMockRule, objectMapper);
    }

    @Test
    public void otherServiceRequestsCakesByFlavourExactlyOnce() {
        // given
        CakeFlavour flavour = CakeFlavour.CHOCOLATE;
        cakesMocker.stubGetAllCakesByFlavour(flavour).andRespondWith(new Cake(1, flavour, "Test recipe")).stub();

        // when
        // ... invoke something on OtherService instance ...

        // then
        // ... maybe make some assertions ...
        cakesMocker.verifyGetAllCakesbyFlavour(flavour).times(1).verify();
    }

    @Test
    public void otherServiceHandlesErrorWhenCreatingCake() {
        // given
        cakesMocker.stubAddCake()
                .withRequestBody(matchingJsonPath("$..[?(@.status=='" + CakeFlavour.LEMON + "')]"))
                .andRespond().withStatusCode(500).stub();

        // when
        // ... invoke something on OtherService instance that creates a lemon cake ...

        // then
        // ... assert that OtherService gracefully handled a 500 ...
    }
}
```

## Tell me more - what can it do?

### Supported operations

You can both stub and verify @GET, @POST, @PUT and @DELETE requests, using functionality automatically generated from
simple interface definitions.

| Request type | Action | Interface method return type | Interface method annotation |
|--------------|--------|------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `@GET` (singular return type) | Stub | `GetSingleRequestStubber<EntityType>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@GET` (collection return type) | Stub | `GetListRequestStubber<CollectionEntityType>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@GET` (all types) | Verify | `GetRequestVerifier` | `@WireMockVerify` |
| `@POST` | Stub | `PostRequestStubber<RequestEntity, ResponseEntity>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@POST` | Verify | `PostRequestVerifier<RequestEntity>` | `@WireMockVerify` |
| `@PUT` | Stub | `PutRequestStubber<RequestEntity, ResponseEntity>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@PUT` | Verify | `GutRequestVerifier<RequestEntity>` | `@WireMockVerify` |
| `@DELETE` | Stub | `DeleteRequestStubber<ResponseEntity>` | `@WireMockStub` |
| `@DELETE` | Verify | `DeleteRequestVerifier` | `@WireMockVerify` |

### Argument handling
#### Argument resolution
Arguments to mocker methods are matched up to the arguments of resource methods in one of two ways: either explicitly,
using `@ParamNamed` on every mocker method argument, or implicitly, with no arguments annotated with `@ParamNamed`.

When resolving arguments explicitly, the mocker method must have an argument for every `@PathParam` declared by the
resource method, but `@QueryParam` arguments are optional. Ordering or arguments can be arbitrary.

When resolving arguments implicitly, the mocker interface methods must have an argument for each `@PathParam` and
`@QueryParam` declared by the resource method, and they must be declared in the same order.

No other parameters (e.g. `@Context`, entity parameters) should be declared in the mocker method; `@HeaderParam` is
not supported.

#### Argument serialisation
If an argument needs more careful serialisation than simply calling toString() on it, apply the `@ParamFormat`
annotation to the _resource_ method parameter to specify a `ParamFormatter` class to perform the formatting.

#### Query parameter matching
By default, query parameters are matched using WireMock's `equalTo()` value matching strategy. To use a different
strategy annotate the _mocker_ method parameter with `@ParamMatchedBy`. Supported strategies are `EQUAL_TO`,
`CONTAINING`, `MATCHING` and `NOT_MATCHING`.

Note that `@ParamMatchedBy` has no effect on path parameters.

### Request body matching
Request stubbers and verifiers for request types that have request entity bodies come with two methods for matching
those request bodies: `withRequestEntity(T entity)` and `withRequestBody(ValueMatchingStrategy strategy)`. The first is
will take an entity and serialise it with the ObjectMapper to provide the string to match against. The second allows
much more fine-grained control over the matching, by allowing specification of any WireMock `ValueMatchingStrategy`,
e.g. `contains()` or `matchesJsonPath()`.

If no request body matching is specified, any request body is acceptable.

### Response body writing
Request stubbers for request types that have singular response bodies can specify a response to reply with - to do so,
use either the `.andRespondWith(myEntity)` or `.andRespond().withEntity(myEntity)` forms. The given object will be
serialised with the ObjectMapper and returned.

For collection type responses, usage is very similar: `.andRespondWith(entity1, entity2, ...)` or
`.andRespond().withEntities(entity1, entity2)`. All entities will be placed in an empty collection of the appropriate
type, then that collection will be serialised.

### Simulating faults
WireMock faults can be applied to responses, e.g. `.andRespond().withFault(Fault.EMPTY_RESPONSE)`.

## But it doesn't do X!
The aim is only to handle the simple cases. For more complicated cases, it's still possible to retain some benefits
from jersey-wiremock by using an abstract class instead of an interface. All the annotated abstract methods work as
described above, but concrete methods may be provided to perform actions that jersey-wiremock doesn't support.

All such abstract classes must inherit from `BaseMocker`.
